
EnglishEn Français
AllAfrica
  

MYAFRICA
TRAVEL
BLOGAFRICA
SOURCES
FREE HEADLINES:EmailRSSMy Account
Countries
Topics
Development
BizTech
Arts
Sport
External Relations
Governance
Multimedia
EMAIL PRINT SHARE
Uganda: Tweeters Oppose Invisible Children Campaign
BY MARK SCHENKEL, 8 MARCH 2012
Comment   
NGO Invisible Children has launched an internet campaign against Joseph Kony, the fugitive head of Uganda's Lord's Resistance Army rebels. The LRA is infamous for committing extreme atrocities against civilians, including murder, mutilation and rape.

Not all Ugandans agree with Invisible Children's approach. Or, to be more precise, many Ugandans who use Twitter, Facebook and Google disagree - that's a small minority of all Ugandans. As local journalist Maureen Agena tweeted: "I doubt that the people in North, East and Westnile Uganda where #kony dominated have an idea that this #stopkony discussion is on."

For one, today's edition of national newspaper the Daily Monitor didn't devote any words to 'Kony 2012', as the Invisible Children's video on the web is called.

Wrong manner

What socially networking Ugandans criticise most is how their country and the LRA conflict are being represented in a simplistic, if not just plain wrong, manner. "If you are in #Uganda, pls advise [Twitter users that] Kony is hiding in Central Africa Rep nt Uganda," tweeted Guide2Uganda. The LRA has not been active in Uganda for over five years, a fact critics say Invisible Children does acknowledge in its video, which focuses on victims in northern Uganda.

Wrong children

"Invisible Children paints a false picture of the current situation on the ground in northern Uganda," says Rosebell Kagumire. The Ugandan journalist has publicised her criticism of 'Kony 2012' via Twitter, where she has over 3,000 followers, both Ugandan and international. "Northern Uganda is not about war or catching Kony anymore, it is about rebuilding. Invisible Children neglects that. They campaign for the Ugandan children from 2005, not the current ones suffering in Congo."

Wrong awareness

But does Invisible Children not at least create the kind of awareness that prompted President Obama's dispatch of 100 American special forces to assist in the search for Mr Kony last October? Obama's decision might precipitate the downfall of the LRA.

"Awareness, yes," Kagumire says, "but the wrong sort of awareness. The Kony campaign suggests that political and military will in the West is all that is needed to end the conflict. Remember that in 2008, the Ugandan Army, already with US assistance, launched an operation against the LRA that led to the revenge killing of more than 300 Congolese. This could happen again. Invisible Children doesn't acknowledge the complexity on the ground or local agency."

"Being strictly neutral is difficult"

In a reaction to the criticism, Invisible Children says it does not claim to have a magic solution. The NGO reiterated its aim of raising awareness and pressuring politicians to find a solution. As to the accusation that Invisible Children favours the Ugandan Army (which, like the LRA, is accused of committing crimes), director of public and media relations Jedediah Jenkins emphasized that remaining strictly neutral is difficult when trying to end a conflict.

"There is a huge problem with political corruption in Africa," Jenkins said. "If we had the purity to say we will not partner with anyone corrupt, we couldn't partner with anyone."

Censure

Kagumire also faces censure. Opponents label her part of the small, privileged group of Ugandans with access to information and the internet, a world away from the millions who live in areas where the LRA has been active. "Ugandans who patronise #KONY2012 have not been affected directly by Kony's atrocities," Javie Ssozi tweeted.

According to Kagumire: "I never claimed to represent the whole of Uganda. I do know many people in the affected regions, though, as well as their opinions. I covered the LRA for over ten years as a journalist. Last year I worked for an NGO in northern Uganda, southern Sudan and Congo."

Tagged: Arms and Armies, Business, Conflict, East Africa, ICT, NGO, Peacekeeping, Uganda


Copyright © 2012 Radio Netherlands Worldwide. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media (allAfrica.com). To contact the copyright holder directly for corrections — or for permission to republish or make other authorized use of this material, click here.

AllAfrica aggregates and indexes content from over 130 African news organizations, plus more than 200 other sources, who are responsible for their own reporting and views. Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are produced or commissioned by AllAfrica.

Comments POST A COMMENT
ICT»

Uganda: Tweeters Oppose Invisible Children Campaign
Africa: India Sets Aside U.S.$5 Billion for Continen...
Ghana: Nokia Launches Care Centres in Accra
East Africa: Damaged EASSY Cable Repairs to Take 2...
Nigeria: NCC to Launch Broadband Expansion Project...
More»
NGO»

Uganda: Tweeters Oppose Invisible Children Campaign
Africa: Activists Stop Mega Trawler Emptying Seas
Uganda: Efforts to Arrest Joseph Kony Must Respect...
Zambia: First Gender Justice and Local Government...
Zimbabwe: The Plight of Poor Children
More»
Uganda»

Uganda: Tweeters Oppose Invisible Children Campaign
Uganda: Efforts to Arrest Joseph Kony Must Respect...
Uganda: Somalia Mission Has Paid Some Dividends
Uganda: 280 Cholera Cases Registered
Uganda: Two Bodies of Drowned Traders Found in Lake...
More»
Business»

Uganda: Tweeters Oppose Invisible Children Campaign
Nigeria: NUPENG Threatens to Go on Strike
Swaziland: Unions Moot Bigger Political Role
Africa: Better Understanding of Cowpea Weevil Could...
Africa: Celebrating the Power of Women to Nourish...
More»
Conflict»

Nigeria: Briton, Italian Killed in Sokoto - After...
Uganda: Tweeters Oppose Invisible Children Campaign
Sudan: Man Killed, 9 Missing As Mob Attack Village
Uganda: Efforts to Arrest Joseph Kony Must Respect...
Nigeria: Botched Rescue Mission - How Briton, Italia...
More»
Peacekeeping»

Uganda: Tweeters Oppose Invisible Children Campaign
Uganda: Efforts to Arrest Joseph Kony Must Respect...
Ghana: A United Nation Would Sustain Peace and Democ...
Central Africa: Joseph Kony 'Evil,' Must Be Held...
Congo-Kinshasa: Ukraine Supplies Peacekeepers With...
More»

INFOCUS: Uganda 

 Uganda: Bodies of Drowned Traders Found in Lake Victoria
The bodies of two of the 13 traders who drowned in ...
 U.S. Role in LRA Fight Questioned
Analysts have questioned the effectiveness of U.S. assistance in the hunt for ...
 Uganda: Govt to Open Nodding Disease Treatment Centers
The government plans to open nodding disease treatment ...
STORIES: Uganda

MOST READ
Uganda: Invisible Children Responds to Criticism of Kony2012 Movie
Uganda: Kony Video Evokes 'Bygone Era'
Uganda: Invisible Children's Jason Russell on KONY 2012
Uganda: Campaign Aiming for Arrest of Wanted War Criminal Goes Viral
Central Africa: The Problem With Invisible Children's 'Kony 2012'
see more »
MOST COMMENTED
MOST EMAILED
TOP NEWS
RNW AFRICA
AFRICAST


   
POPULAR DISCUSSIONS

Africa: South Africa Apologises for Nigeria…8 COMMENTS
Africa: What Way Forward for Protocol for…2 COMMENTS
Senegal: World Court Should Order Habré…2 COMMENTS
Nigeria: South Africa Begs Government1 COMMENT
Zimbabwe: Mavambo Geared for Elections This Year1 COMMENT
Africa: U.S. Oil Company Looks at 'Every…1 COMMENT
CONNECT WITH ALLAFRICA.COM

    
AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 2000 news and information items daily from over 130 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Lagos, Monrovia, Nairobi and Washington DC.

© 2012 AllAfrica // Privacy // Contact
SUBSCRIBE TO ALLAFRICA VIA RSS
AllAfrica - All the Time